- [Instructor The List interface has many methods
that deal with an element's position in the list.
To help with this,
method signatures will often accept an index as an argument,
or use the index as the return value.
Let's visualize a few of these methods
using a list of strings.
We'll start out by inserting elements into a list.
Using the add method from the collection interface
causes an object to be upended at the back of the list.
So after this first call, if we call the method again,
the element is placed at the second position in the list.
You'll also notice that we can add
duplicate elements into our list.
The List interface also has an overloaded form
of the add method that allows us to add an element
at a specific position.
To do this, it accepts an integer as its first argument,
and the object to insert as its second argument.
The object is then placed into the list
at the index specified by the integer.
When calling any method on a list that accepts an index,
we'll receive an index out of bounds exception
if the index is negative
or if it exceeds the size of the list.
Another way to insert list elements
is using the add all method.
It performs a bulk insert operation that inserts elements
from a provided collection
and a specified position in the list.
We can replace an element at a specific position
using the list set method.
So let's replace that letter A in the fifth position,
that's ruining our sequence.
The method replaces the element at the provided index
with the object that is provided as the second argument.
Its return value is the element
that was in the previous position.
In this case, that was the letter A.
Let's move on and look at retrieving elements from our list.
We can access an element at a specific position
by passing an integer to the GET method.
This will cause the element at the index to be returned.
If we have an object
and we need to know where it's positioned in the list,
we can pass it to the index of method.
This method returns an integer that denotes the index
of the object's first occurrence in the list.
If the object isn't in the list,
the method returns negative one.
Let's look at one final method
so we can see another way to remove list elements.
This remove method is an overloaded form
of the remove method found on the collection interface,
and it behaves a little bit differently.
It accepts an integer that identifies the position
of the element that we want to remove.
Then, in addition to removing the element at the index,
it also returns the element that we're removing.
It's a nice feature if you also need to retrieve
the element that you're taking out of the list.
These methods are very useful when working with a list.
And don't forget, the list interface
extends the collection interface.
So, you also have those methods to work with too.